While some degree of engineering skill has always been part of a scientist's toolkit, the wide availability of powerful open-source toolkits has given rise to the hybrid role of the 'research engineer'. A research engineer resides within the conventional academy, but their intellectual product is equal parts knowledge and technology. A worker with such an aptitude perceives every inefficiency in their daily workflow as an additional problem to be solved, seamlessly transitioning from the theorise-experiment-discuss paradigm of the scientist to the iterative-inventive paradigm of the engineer, the tinkerer, or the artist. Research engineers restlessly seek out new challenges and have a tendency to stray beyond the boundaries of any one specialisation. In their wake they leave a personal 'state of the art' which is exactly sufficient to their work.

The rise of the research engineer is a natural and desirable restoration of a very old scientific tradition, recognisable from Archimedes through Galileo to Enrico Fermi, that was only temporarily displaced by the division of labour facilitated by rich 20th century universities. Yet, whereas earlier inventor-researchers dealt in the intuitive realm of materials and machinery, the modern research engineer must in effect learn to 'think in code'. Worse, they are all too often self-taught - at great personal cost, and with decidely mixed results {cite}`Wilson2017-xm`.



This apparent revolution can be read instead as a reversion to or reinstatement of a very ancient tradition in the sciences: that of the thinker-tinkerer, the author-ingenue, the 'Renaissance Man'. Today we might call this character a 'research engineer'.

A research engineer resides within the conventional academy, but their intellectual product is equal parts knowledge and technology. A worker with such an aptitude perceives every inefficiency in their daily workflow as an additional problem to be solved, seamlessly transitioning from the theorise-experiment-discuss paradigm of the scientist to the iterative-inventive paradigm of the engineer, the tinkerer, or the artist. Research engineers restlessly seek out new challenges and have a tendency to stray beyond the boundaries of any one specialisation. In their wake they leave a personal 'state of the art' which is exactly sufficient to their work.

The research engineer is a natural and desirable restoration of a very old scientific tradition, recognisable from Archimedes through Galileo to Enrico Fermi, that was only temporarily displaced by the division of labour facilitated by rich 20th century universities. Yet, whereas earlier inventor-researchers dealt in the intuitive realm of materials and machinery, the modern research engineer must in effect learn to 'think in code'. Worse, they are all too often self-taught - at great personal cost, and with decidely mixed results {cite}`Wilson2017-xm`.

